New scenario to support Azure Arc Enabled Kubernetes on edge devices (IoT) (#545)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_k8s/aks_iot_edge/aks_iot_edge_terraform/_index.md

---
type: docs
title: "AKS on Azure IoT Edge Terraform plan"

> linkTitle: "AKS on Azure IoT Edge Terraform plan"

Author: Fix destruction and change the title! 
Kubernetes
    IoT Uses Cases
        AKS
           **Azure IoT Edge integration with AKS as an Azure Arc Connected Cluster**

  > **Note: Azure Kubernetes Service is now in preview on Azure IoT Edge. You can find more details about this service at: [IoT Edge's support for Kubernetes](https://microsoft.github.io/iotedge-k8s-doc/)**

The following README will guide you on how to use the provided [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) plan to deploy an [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes) cluster and connect it as an Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes resource.

## Prerequisites

* Clone the Azure Arc Jumpstart repository

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
    ```

* [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.15.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

  ```shell
  az --version
  ```

> * [Install Terraform >=0.12](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Install Terraform >=0.15](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install.html)
```

Reviewer: Was this tested in terraform >=0.15?

* [Enable subscription with](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/resource-providers-and-types#register-resource-provider) the two resource providers for Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes. Registration is an asynchronous process, and registration may take approximately 10 minutes.

  ```shell
  az provider register --namespace Microsoft.Kubernetes
  az provider register --namespace Microsoft.KubernetesConfiguration
  az extension add --name connectedk8s
  az extension add --name k8sconfiguration
  ```

  You can monitor the registration process with the following commands:

  ```shell
  az provider show -n Microsoft.Kubernetes -o table
  az provider show -n Microsoft.KubernetesConfiguration -o table
  ```

## Automation Flow

For you to get familiar with the automation and deployment flow, below is an explanation.

> * In the first script ( [edge_azure_vm.sh](https://github.com/Manuss20/Kubernetes_edge/blob/main/deploy/scripts/edge/edge_azure_vm.sh) ) that you use specifically to provision the necessary components in the VM to be able to deploy our "simulated" edge device:
> 
>   * Download Install the required tools moby-engine
>   * Download & install the Azure aziot-edge
>   * Creation of a new configuration file for aziot-edge (/etc/aziot/config.toml)
> 
> * In this second bash script ( [az_k8sconfig_helm_aks.sh](https://github.com/Manuss20/Kubernetes_edge/blob/main/deploy/scripts/helm/az_k8sconfig_helm_aks.sh) ) it will allow us to deploy our IoT Edge solution for AKS, configure our and associate our AKS cluster with Azure Arc, for this: 
>   * Log in to Azure with Service Principal & Getting AKS credentials (kubeconfig)
>   * Associate our AKS with Azure Arc
>   * Create Namespace iotedge in AKS
>   * Generate secret that contains the connectionstring of our edge device.
>   * Create Cluster-level GitOps-Config for deploying IoT Edge workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the first script ( [edge_azure_vm.sh](https://github.com/main/Kubernetes_edge/blob/main/deploy/scripts/edge/edge_azure_vm.sh) ) that you use specifically to provision the necessary components in the VM to be able to deploy our "simulated" edge device:

  * Download Install the required tools moby-engine
  * Download & install the Azure _aziot-edge_
  * Creation of a new configuration file for aziot-edge (/etc/aziot/config.toml)

* In this second bash script ( [az_k8sconfig_helm_aks.sh](https://github.com/main/Kubernetes_edge/blob/main/deploy/scripts/helm/az_k8sconfig_helm_aks.sh) ) it will allow us to deploy our IoT Edge solution for AKS, configure our and associate our AKS cluster with Azure Arc, for this: 
  * Log in to Azure with Service Principal & Getting AKS credentials (kubeconfig)
  * Associate our AKS with Azure Arc
  * Create Namespace _iotedge_ in AKS
  * Generate a secret that contains the connection string of our edge device.
  * Create Cluster-level GitOps-Config for deploying IoT Edge workload
```

> ## Deployment
> 
> Before running the Terraform automation, you need to export the environment variables which will be used by the plan to customize your environment.
> 
> In addition, validate that the AKS Kubernetes version is available in your region using the below Azure CLI command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deployment

Before running the Terraform automation, you need to export the environment variables that will be used by the plan to customize your environment.

In addition, validate that the AKS Kubernetes version is available in your region using the below Azure CLI command.
```

    ![Screenshot showing terraform plan completing](./02.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Azure Portal with AKS resource](./03.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Azure Portal with AKS resource](./04.png)

* In this scenario we will use a VM as a "simulation" of an IoT Edge device. To do this, we must register a new Edge device in our IoT Hub that we will later configure. 

* In order to keep your local environment clean and untouched, we will use [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-shell/overview) (located in the top-right corner in the Azure portal) to run the next commands:

    ![Screenshot showing how to access Cloud Shell in Visual Studio Code](./05.png)

* Create IoT Edge Device
 ```shell
az iot hub device-identity create --device-id "EdgeDeviceSim" --edge-enabled --hub-name k8sedgejumpstart
 ```

> **Note: We will obtain the connection string of the new IoT Edge device to be able to make the link**
```shell
az iot hub device-identity connection-string show --device-id "EdgeDeviceSim" --hub-name k8sedgejumpstart
  ```

  ![Screenshot showing how to access Cloud Shell in Visual Studio Code](./06.png)

>   ![Screenshot showing how to access Cloud Shell in Visual Studio Code](./07.png)

Reviewer: No need to mask the entire string. Leave something so the reader will know what to expect.

> * Now we must modify the file /etc/aziot/config.toml that is in the VM that we have deployed, for this we must connect by SSH with our credentials.
> Once inside the VM, we will modify the /etc/aziot/config.toml file including the following lines at the end of the file with the value of the connection string that we have obtained in the previous step: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Modify the file _/etc/aziot/config.toml_ in the VM that we have deployed using your SSH credentials.
Once inside the VM, we will modify the /etc/aziot/config.toml file including the following lines at the end of the file with the value of the connection string that we have obtained in the previous step: 
```

Reviewer: This feels very "manual". Can this be automated further?

```shell
# Manual provisioning with connection string
[provisioning]
source = "manual"
connection_string = "<ADD DEVICE CONNECTION STRING HERE>"
 ```

> * We save the file and execute the following command to synchronize the configuration: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We save the file and execute the following command to synchronize the configuration: 
```

The lingo here is a bit confusing and unclear. Try to think about how to write this as a guide and not like a face-to-face conversation.

```shell
sudo iotedge config apply
 ```

![Screenshot showing sync config IoT Edge device in VM](./08.png)

* Finally we will return to the Azure Cloud Shell where we will assign to our new device a module to simulate a temperature sensor. For this we will upload the file through the Azure Cloud Shell interface:  

![Screenshot showing sync config IoT Edge device in VM](./09.png)

> * Once the file is uploaded, we will launch the following command: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once the file is uploaded, execute the following command: 
```

> > **Note: You can see an example of the [deployment.json](https://github.com/Manuss20/Kubernetes_edge/blob/main/deploy/scripts/edge/deployment.json) file that we use.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note: You can see an example of the [deployment.json](https://github.com/main/Kubernetes_edge/blob/main/deploy/scripts/edge/deployment.json) file that we use.**
```

```shell
az iot edge set-modules --hub-name k8sedgejumpstart --device-id "EdgeDeviceSim" --content ./deployment.json
```

* Now we go to the Azure portal -> K8sEdgeJumpStart and look for our IoT Hub instance -> k8sedgejumpstart: 

> ![Screenshot showing IoT Edge device in IoT Hub](./10.png)

Reviewer: Just step numbers should be fine, otherwise, it is too busy with arrows

> * Now we go to the Azure portal -> K8sEdgeJumpStart and look for our IoT Hub instance -> k8sedgejumpstart: 
> 
> ![Screenshot showing IoT Edge device in IoT Hub](./10.png)
> 
> * By selecting on our IoT Edge device we can see all the information about the modules it is running. If everything has been successful we will see that the "SimulatedTemperatureSensor" module is running correctly.
> 
> ![Screenshot showing IoT Edge device in IoT Hub](./11.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the Azure portal, select the IoT Hub instance under _K8sEdgeJumpStart_. By selecting our IoT Edge device, we can see all the information about the modules it is running and If everything has been successful we will see that the "SimulatedTemperatureSensor" module is running correctly.

![Screenshot showing IoT Edge device in IoT Hub](./10.png)

![Screenshot showing IoT Edge device in IoT Hub](./11.png)
```

* We can also check from the virtual machine itself the modules that are running at that moment, using the following command: 

```shell
sudo iotedge list
```

![Screenshot showing IoT Edge modules running in the device](./12.png)

> * Now download the [values.yaml](https://github.com/Azure/iotedge/blob/preview/iiot/kubernetes/charts/edge-kubernetes/values.yaml) file for IoT Edge Helm chart and replace the deviceConnectionString placeholder at the end of the file with the connection string you noted earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Download the [values.yaml](https://github.com/Azure/iotedge/blob/preview/iiot/kubernetes/charts/edge-kubernetes/values.yaml) file for IoT Edge Helm chart and replace the _deviceConnectionString_ placeholder at the end of the file with the connection string you noted earlier.
```

```shell
# Manual provisioning configuration using a connection string
provisioning:
  source: "manual"
  deviceConnectionString: "<ADD DEVICE CONNECTION STRING HERE>"
  dynamicReprovisioning: false
```

> * We will edit the environment variables section in the included [az_k8sconfig_helm_aks.sh](https://github.com/Manuss20/Kubernetes_edge/blob/main/deploy/scripts/helm/az_k8sconfig_helm_aks.sh) shell script. As in the previous steps we will upload the files to our Azure Cloud Shell.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Edit the environment variables section in the included in the [_az_k8sconfig_helm_aks.sh_](https://github.com/main/Kubernetes_edge/blob/main/deploy/scripts/helm/az_k8sconfig_helm_aks.sh) shell script. As we did in the previous steps, upload the files to our Azure Cloud Shell.   
```

![Screenshot showing delete function in Azure Portal](./13.png)

> * Once the script run has finished, the AKS cluster will be projected as a new Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes resource. We will proceed to connect to our AKS cluster and in a couple of minutes you should see the workload modules defined in the edge deployment running as pods along with edgeagent and iotedged. 

Reviewer: Explain why this is happening and how the GitOps flow kicks in. It feels a bit out of context...

> We can use the following commands to check it: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check the status of deployment pods and it's logs, use the following commands:
```

Reviewer: Also, add screenshot

```shell
kubectl get pods -n iotedge
```
```shell

> kubectl logs -n iotedge replace-with-iot-edge-pod-name simulatedtemperaturesensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl logs -n iotedge <replace-with-iot-edge-pod-name> simulatedtemperaturesensor
```

```

> ## Delete the deployment
> 
> The most straightforward way is to delete the Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes resource via the Azure Portal, just select the Resource Group and delete it.
> 
> ![Screenshot showing delete function in Azure Portal](./14.png)
> 
> If you want to nuke the entire environment, delete both the AKS and the AKS resources resource groups or run the ```terraform destroy -auto-approve``` command.
> 
> ![Screenshot showing terraform destroy being run](./15.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Delete the deployment

The most straightforward way is to delete the Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes resource via the Azure Portal, just select the Resource Group and delete it.

![Screenshot showing delete function in Azure Portal](./14.png)

If you want to nuke the entire environment, delete both the AKS and the AKS resources resource groups or run the ```terraform destroy --auto-approve``` command.

![Screenshot showing terraform destroy being run](./15.png)
```
